Adversary-in-the-Middle

Adversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices using an adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) technique to support follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniffing, Transmitted Data Manipulation, or replay attacks (Exploitation for Credential Access). By abusing features of common networking protocols that can determine the flow of network traffic (e.g. ARP, DNS, LLMNR, etc.), adversaries may force a device to communicate through an adversary controlled system so they can collect information or perform additional actions.[1]

For example, adversaries may manipulate victim DNS settings to enable other malicious activities such as preventing/redirecting users from accessing legitimate sites and/or pushing additional malware.[2][3][4] Adversaries may also manipulate DNS and leverage their position in order to intercept user credentials, including access tokens (Steal Application Access Token) and session cookies (Steal Web Session Cookie).[5][6] Downgrade Attacks can also be used to establish an AiTM position, such as by negotiating a less secure, deprecated, or weaker version of communication protocol (SSL/TLS) or encryption algorithm.[7][8][9]

Adversaries may also leverage the AiTM position to attempt to monitor and/or modify traffic, such as in Transmitted Data Manipulation. Adversaries can setup a position similar to AiTM to prevent traffic from flowing to the appropriate destination, potentially to Impair Defenses and/or in support of a Network Denial of Service.

Procedure Examples
ID 	Name 	     Description
C0046 	ArcaneDoor 	ArcaneDoor included interception of HTTP traffic to victim devices to identify and parse command and control information sent to the device.[10]


S0281 	Dok 	   Dok proxies web traffic to potentially monitor and alter victim HTTP(S) traffic.[11][12]


G0094 	Kimsuky  Kimsuky has used modified versions of PHProxy to examine web traffic between the victim and the accessed website.[13]


S1188 	Line Runner 	Line Runner intercepts HTTP requests to the victim Cisco ASA, looking for a request with a 32-character, victim dependent parameter. If that parameter matches a value in the malware, a contained payload is then written to a Lua script and executed.[10]


G0129 	Mustang Panda 	Mustang Panda leveraged a captive portal hijack that redirected the victim to a webpage that prompted the victim to download a malicious payload.[14]


S1131 	NPPSPY 	NPPSPY opens a new network listener for the mpnotify.exe process that is typically contacted by the Winlogon process in Windows. A new, alternative RPC channel is set up with a malicious DLL recording plaintext credentials entered into Winlogon, effectively intercepting and redirecting the logon information.[15]


G1041 	Sea Turtle 	Sea Turtle modified DNS records at service providers to redirect traffic from legitimate resources to Sea Turtle-controlled servers to enable adversary-in-the-middle attacks for credential capture.[16][17]


Brute Force


Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown or when password hashes are obtained.[1] Without knowledge of the password for an account or set of accounts, an adversary may systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism.[2] Brute forcing passwords can take place via interaction with a service that will check the validity of those credentials or offline against previously acquired credential data, such as password hashes.

Brute forcing credentials may take place at various points during a breach. For example, adversaries may attempt to brute force access to Valid Accounts within a victim environment leveraging knowledge gathered from other post-compromise behaviors such as OS Credential Dumping, Account Discovery, or Password Policy Discovery. Adversaries may also combine brute forcing activity with behaviors such as External Remote Services as part of Initial Access.

If an adversary guesses the correct password but fails to login to a compromised account due to location-based conditional access policies, they may change their infrastructure until they match the victim’s location and therefore bypass those policies.[3]


 Brute Force: Password Cracking
Adversaries may use password cracking to attempt to recover usable credentials, such as plaintext passwords, when credential material such as password hashes are obtained. OS Credential Dumping can be used to obtain password hashes, this may only get an adversary so far when Pass the Hash is not an option. Further, adversaries may leverage Data from Configuration Repository in order to obtain hashed credentials for network devices.[1]

Techniques to systematically guess the passwords used to compute hashes are available, or the adversary may use a pre-computed rainbow table to crack hashes. Cracking hashes is usually done on adversary-controlled systems outside of the target network.[2] The resulting plaintext password resulting from a successfully cracked hash may be used to log into systems, resources, and services in which the account has access.


Input Capture: Keylogging

Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when OS Credential Dumping efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured. In order to increase the likelihood of capturing credentials quickly, an adversary may also perform actions such as clearing browser cookies to force users to reauthenticate to systems.[1]

Keylogging is the most prevalent type of input capture, with many different ways of intercepting keystrokes.[2] Some methods include:

    Hooking API callbacks used for processing keystrokes. Unlike Credential API Hooking, this focuses solely on API functions intended for processing keystroke data.
    Reading raw keystroke data from the hardware buffer.
    Windows Registry modifications.
    Custom drivers.
    Modify System Image may provide adversaries with hooks into the operating system of network devices to read raw keystrokes for login sessions.[3] 

