The goal of the Respond function is to develop and implement appropriate activities to take action regarding a detected cybersecurity incident.

The Respond Function supports the ability to contain the impact of a potential cybersecurity incident. Examples of outcome Categories within this Function include: Response Planning; Communications; Analysis; Mitigation; and Improvements.
Framework Categories
RS.AN: Analysis

Analysis is conducted to ensure effective response and support recovery activities.
RS.CO: Communications

Response activities are coordinated with internal and external stakeholders (e.g. external support from law enforcement agencies).
RS.IM: Improvements

Organizational response activities are improved by incorporating lessons learned from current and previous detection/response activities.
RS.MI: Mitigation

Activities are performed to prevent expansion of an event, mitigate its effects, and resolve the incident.
RS.RP: Response Planning

Response processes and procedures are executed and maintained, to ensure response to detected cybersecurity incidents.

Actions regarding a detected cybersecurity incident are taken. RESPOND supports the ability to contain the effects of cybersecurity incidents. Outcomes within this Function cover incident management, analysis, mitigation, reporting, and communication.
Incident Management RS.MA
Incident Analysis RS.AN
Incident Response Reporting and Communication RS.CO
Incident Mitigation 


RESPOND (RS): Actions regarding a detected cybersecurity incident are taken
• Incident Management (RS.MA): Responses to detected cybersecurity incidents are
managed
  o RS.MA-01: The incident response plan is executed in coordination with relevant third
parties once an incident is declared
  o RS.MA-02: Incident reports are triaged and validated
  o RS.MA-03: Incidents are categorized and prioritized
  o RS.MA-04: Incidents are escalated or elevated as needed
  o RS.MA-05: The criteria for initiating incident recovery are applied
• Incident Analysis (RS.AN): Investigations are conducted to ensure effective response and
support forensics and recovery activities
  o RS.AN-03: Analysis is performed to establish what has taken place during an incident
and the root cause of the incident
  o RS.AN-06: Actions performed during an investigation are recorded, and the records’
integrity and provenance are preserved
  o RS.AN-07: Incident data and metadata are collected, and their integrity and provenance
are preserved
  o RS.AN-08: An incident’s magnitude is estimated and validated
• Incident Response Reporting and Communication (RS.CO): Response activities are
coordinated with internal and external stakeholders as required by laws, regulations, or
policies
  o RS.CO-02: Internal and external stakeholders are notified of incidents
  o RS.CO-03: Information is shared with designated internal and external stakeholders
• Incident Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are performed to prevent expansion of an event and
mitigate its effects
  o RS.MI-01: Incidents are contained
  o RS.MI-02: Incidents are eradicated


Response Planning (RS.RP): Response processes and procedures are executed and maintained, to ensure timely response to detected cybersecurity incidents.

Communications (RS.CO): Response activities are coordinated with internal and external stakeholders, as appropriate, to include external support from law enforcement agencies.

Analysis (RS.AN): Analysis is conducted to ensure adequate response and support recovery activities.

Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are performed to prevent expansion of an event, mitigate its effects, and resolve the incident.
